So what we can do now is head over back to
our course site and kinda see what's next.
So the next thing we wanna do is we have
to sync our schema with our database.
When you use a relational database like
Postgres, the database has to know what
the schema is, so that way it actually
knows how to interpret the reads and
the rights and different things like that,
the rules of the database.
If you come from something like Mongo,
you don't really have to
sync any of that stuff.
You don't even really need a schema
although you can use them,
so it's a little different.
But for a relational database,
you need to sync them.
So that's what we're gonna do.
And luckily for us,
we get that for free with Prisma.
We also need to generate that type safe
ORM or that SDK for our database so
we can actually use it in our Next.js
app so we can query the user table,
create new projects,
update tasks, things like that.
So we need that SDK to talk to
the database cuz the database is not in
JavaScript, right,
we need that translation layer.
So we kinda get that for free with Prisma.
So what we can do is you can
just run npx prisma migrate,
like that, or sorry,
npx prisma migrate dev
And if you're using Railway or some hosted
database, it might take a minute cuz
it's going to the Internet and it's doing
stuff, so we'll see how long this takes.
If we run it locally, it will
probably happen almost immediately.
So it's gonna ask for a migration name.
I'm just gonna call this init for
the initial migration.
And then you can see what it says here, it
applied that migration, it put a timestamp
on it, it saved it to this migrations
folder that it created with that folder.
And then in migration SQL, we'll go take
a look at that to see what Prisma did for
you, if you're curious.
And then it says your database
is now in sync with your schema.
And then the last thing it said
is it generate Prisma Client, and
it saved it here.
So if you wanna import it, you'll just
import @prisma/client, and this is gonna
be the SDK that's unique to your schema,
which is probably the same as mine.
That way you can get that
TypeScript in your editor.
So as you start typing out the ORM,
it'll know about a user,
and a user has an email.
It'll know that a task has a name and
a status.
It'll know those things.
So it has to get generated every
single time you change your schema.
So that might be a new concept,
whereas most npm packages we download are
already created and we just consume them.
This is the npm package that gets created
every single time you make a change
to your schema, so
it's a little weird, but kinda cool.
Anyway, let's go look at what happened.
So if we go look at migrations,
here it is,
here's the SQL file that it created for
us.
It's a lot of SQL.
If you don't know SQL, if you look at this
compared to Prisma, then you're like,
I'm so glad Prisma did that,
but this is what you would have
had to written yourself if you were to
do the migration yourself, basically.
So we got that for free.
So we'll get there and
now we are ready to do some stuff with it.
So let's keep it moving.
So one thing we wanna do
is we wanna create a little
wrapper around the Prisma Client.
And that's just because of
the environment in which Next.js runs in.
Next.js, at least for the backend,
is gonna run in a service architecture.
And if you don't know how service works
compared to a server environment,
a server environment is always running,
it's always on.
So databases were designed to
connect with them, with a URL that
states those connections are long-lived,
cuz our server is always on.
If your server is off, then no one can use
your app, so your server is always on.
So databases were designed
to be connected with them.
Most databases have a connection limit
where you can pull those connections and
try to switch them back and forth.
Eventually with a service environment,
you will run into a limit on
that database really soon.
Each database has different limits and
you're gonna have problems.
So to get around that,
you can cache the connection that you
already had to share it across
different service executions.
Because all those Serverless functions are
stateless and they spin up and shut down,
the actual container that hosts
them stay alive for quite a while.
And the RAM,
the memory that your code is accessing
while those containers are alive,
we can tap into that and store these
database connections into that cache.
So therefore,
we're not making new connections every
time we spin up a service function.
So it's a little deep,
nut basically we're gonna do this.
This is gonna create
a Prisma Client instance for us.
It's gonna check to see
if we already did one.
If it did, we're gonna get that one,
if it didn't,
it's gonna save it in the global and
return that one instead.
Right, so
we wanna do this in our lib folder,
cuz it's where we put all
our library stuff, and
we're just gonna call it db.ts,
Like that, there we go.
So db.ts here, And again,
if we look at this, all
it's doing is it's importing our generated
client, just some TypeScript stuff.
TypeScript is gonna freak out if you try
to use something in the global space
that's not actually there.
And then we're checking to
see if we're in production,
cuz we kinda really only wanna make
a new one here if we're in production.
Else, if there isn't one in cache,
go ahead and get it, and
then just export that one out.
That's basically it.
This also helps with the way
Next.js does hot module reloading.
It keeps reloading and
it keeps making a new connection
you'll run into a Prisma error.
This prevents that as well.
Okay, any questions on that?
There's things on the database
level that fix this, so
using a service database like FaunaDB,
PlanetScale,
which is one of my favorites right now,
really cool database, and
Firebase or any HTTP-based database
really can solve this problem.